Task
SECTION: APPLICATION DEPLOYMENT


For this question, please set the context to cluster3 by running:


kubectl config use-context cluster3



In this task, we have to create two identical environments that are running different versions of the application. The team decided to use the Blue/green deployment method to deploy a total of 10 application pods which can mitigate common risks such as downtime and rollback capability.

Also, we have to route traffic in such a way that 30% of the traffic is sent to the green-apd environment and the rest is sent to the blue-apd environment. All the development processes will happen on cluster 3 because it has enough resources for scalability and utility consumption.


Specification details for creating a blue-apd deployment are listed below: -

The name of the deployment is blue-apd.
Use the label type-one: blue.
Use the image kodekloud/webapp-color:v1.
Add labels to the pod type-one: blue and version: v1.

Specification details for creating a green-apd deployment are listed below: -

The name of the deployment is green-apd.
Use the label type-two: green.
Use the image kodekloud/webapp-color:v2.
Add labels to the pod type-two: green and version: v1.

We have to create a service called route-apd-svc for these deployments. Details are here: -

The name of the service is route-apd-svc.
Use the correct service type to access the application from outside the cluster and application should listen on port 8080.
Use the selector label version: v1.

NOTE: - We do not need to increase replicas for the deployments, and all the resources should be created in the default namespace.




You can check the status of the application from the terminal by running the curl command with the following syntax:

curl http://cluster3-controlplane:NODE-PORT




You can SSH into the cluster3 using ssh cluster3-controlplane command.